#summary Version history
#labels Featured

= Version history =

 * 1.2.0 (r95)
   * Issue #18 - Speed up reading of entire SparseFields
   * Issue #21 - CubicFieldInterp bug
   * Issue #28 - Add global metadata
   * Issue #29 - File I/O code uses dynamic_pointer_cast instead of field_dynamic_cast
   * Issue #30 - Prevent reading a field 3 times
   * Issue #31 - Overall SparseField caching improvements
   * Issue #32 - Replace multiple traits class to single DataTypeTraits
   * Issue #33 - Proxy fields should include metadata
   * Issue #34 - releaseBlocks() fails when blocks are partially in use
   * Issue #35 - Resizing DenseField does not re-allocate memory correctly
   * Issue #36 - FieldInterp classes should inherit from RefBase
   * Issue #37 - Disable HDF5 warnings unless DEBUG_HDF is set.
   * Issue #38 - Silence class registration messages unless $FIELD3D_DEBUG is set
   * Issue #40 - Race condition opportunity and observed multi-threading crash

 * 1.1.6 (r78)
   * Added 'f3dinfo' app
   * Moved some of the little test apps from apps/ into test/misc_tests and apps/sample_code
   * Field3DFile.cpp : parsePartition() will now skip "field3d_global_metadata". This is to ensure that .f3d files written using v1.2 of the library will be readable by v1.1.6. (issue #19)
 * 1.1.5 (r63)
   * CMake file added (contributed by Nicholas Yue)
   * Removed unused member variables in SparseField (issue #24)
   * BuildSupport.py: addField3DInstall now prepends paths to make sure they take precedence over any installed versions.
 * 1.1.4 (r41)
   * Exposing some utility methods in SparseField (issue #12)
 * 1.1.3 (r40)
   * Commenting and cleanup of SparseFile.h (issue #11)
 * 1.1.2 (r38)
   * Removed some spurious SPI:: namespaces that had snuck in with the SparseFileManager
 * 1.1.1 (r35)
   * Renamed Log -> Msg
   * Merged the various class factories into ClassFactory (issue #4)
   * Replaced str() function with explicit boost::lexical_cast<> calls.
   * Added more Imath typedefs.
   * Implemented block cache for SparseField (issue #2)
   * Added base class for reference counted objects (issue #5)
   * FieldMapping: Added voxelToWorld that takes iterators.
   * Renamed LinearFieldInterp/CubicFieldInterp template to LinearGenericFieldInterp/CubicGenericFieldInterp
     * Uses the code from LinearDenseFieldInterp
   * Each concrete Field class now has LinearInterp and CubicInterp typedefs for easy access.
   * Added dataTypeToEnum traits function
   * Version handling in file reading code. Field3D can now specify a minimum version number that the library is compatible with.
 * 1.0.1 (r29)
   * FieldMapping intrusive pointers were not thread safe. Fixed. Also fixed reference count in copy constructor.
   * BuildSupport.py - bug fix for dealing with math header file
   * Changed required boost version to 1.34.0
 * 1.0.0 (r12)
   * Initial check-in